Performance 2025 chapter (#4334)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2025/performance.md

  description="The chart shows the percentage of websites achieving good Core Web Vitals (CWV) scores by site rank, comparing desktop and mobile performance. Among the top 1,000 websites, 59% of desktop sites have good CWV, compared to 51% on mobile, with mobile performance declining further for the next tiers to 42% for the top 10,000 and 37% for the top 100,000 sites. Desktop performance remains relatively stable across ranks, staying between 55% and 57%, while mobile performance improves again for lower-ranked sites, reaching 49% for the top 10 million and 48% overall.",
chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSdGtVc2AYakM2cNaGLtpVgQwXfG7jOrGQymbbJo20qaMXn1Pd1cyV_tU9PROEuwFbhFBeI3GHCNhvN/pubchart?oid=293787205&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1721986308",
  sql_file="web_vitals_by_rank_and_device.sql"
  )
}}

Core Web Vitals for top mobile websites show a clear distinction, however the scores drop significantly for less popular sites:
- 51% of the 1,000 most popular mobile websites have good Core Web Vitals (CWV), surpassing the overall mobile CWV of 48%.
- The next 10,000 websites score 42%.

> - The subsequent 1 million websites score 37%.

Author: Thanks so much, agree this is a good observation to put thoughts on, what do you think about following reasoning? 

On mobile, the most and least popular sites tend to perform better than those in the middle of the popularity distribution. The most popular sites show better Core Web Vitals results, while performance drops for mid-popularity sites before improving again among the least popular sites.

This pattern may reflect differences in page complexity and performance investment across the popularity tiers. Highly popular sites often treat performance as a priority due to performance and business metrics correlation and are more likely to invest in ongoing optimizations. Mid-popularity sites may combine higher complexity such as additional features and third-party scripts with fewer resources or less sustained focus on performance, leading to weaker results. Less popular sites are often simpler, with fewer features and lighter pages, which can benefit from platform defaults and hence offer comparatively better performance.

This U curve effect is more evident on mobile, where slower devices and less stable network conditions tend to amplify the impact of page complexity and limited optimization. On desktop, more powerful hardware and more stable networks can reduce the visible impact of these differences.

Pages may be excluded from BFCache due to known lifecycle behaviors, including the use of unload or beforeunload event handlers, non-restorable side effects such as active connections or unmanaged timers, and certain third-party scripts that interfere with safe page restoration. Hence, the unload event is deprecated and discouraged due to its negative impact on performance and its incompatibility with the back/forward cache (BFCache).

Browsers <a hreflang="en" href="https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/deprecating-unload">recommend avoiding unload</a> in favor of alternatives such as visibilitychange or pagehide, a shift that is reflected in recent usage patterns. [Compared to 2024](../2024/performance#backforward-cache-bfcache), unload handler usage declined across all ranks and both devices in 2025. This reduction suggests that more pages are now eligible for BFCache behavior. Despite this progress, unload handlers remain more common on higher-ranked sites and on desktop, continuing to limit BFCache eligibility for a significant portion of the web, as seen below in the graph.

{{ figure_markup(

>   image="unload-handler-usage.png",

Reviewer: ❓ Has this image been committed yet? I don't see it in this PR.

### CLS Best Practices 

#### Fixed Image Sizes

Images are one of the most common causes of Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS) when the browser does not know how much space to reserve for them upfront. If an image loads without explicit dimensions, the browser initially lays out the page as if the image has zero height, and then shifts surrounding content once the image finishes loading.

To prevent this, images should always have intrinsic dimensions defined either via `width` and `height` attributes or by using CSS `aspect-ratio` so the browser can allocate the correct amount of space before the image is fetched.

{{ figure_markup(
  caption="The percent of mobile pages that fail to set explicit dimensions on at least one image.",
  content="62.28%",
  classes="big-number",
  sheets_gid="1870744021",
  sql_file="cls_unsized_images.sql"
)}}

> In 2025, a significant share of pages still risk layout instability due to images without explicit dimensions. On mobile, 62.28% of pages fail to set dimensions on at least one image, an improvement from 66% in 2024, indicating gradual adoption of CLS friendly image practices.

Reviewer: Same as above: change `62.28% to `62.38%`.

```suggestion
In 2025, a significant share of pages still risk layout instability due to images without explicit dimensions. On mobile, 62.38% of pages fail to set dimensions on at least one image, an improvement from 66% in 2024, indicating gradual adoption of CLS friendly image practices.
```

{{ figure_markup(
  caption="The percent of mobile pages that use web fonts.",
  content="86.6%",
  classes="big-number",
  sheets_gid="1246939241",
  sql_file="font_usage_mobile.sql"
)}}

A significant majority 86.6% of mobile pages utilize at least one web font. This widespread use of custom typography requires downloading and application, substantially [raising the potential](https://web.dev/articles/optimize-cls#web-fonts) for layout shifts.

To effectively minimize layout shifts caused by fonts, it is crucial to load essential fonts as early as possible, ideally using resource hints. If a font loads before or very near the first render, the browser can display text using the correct font immediately. This prevents the swap from a default font, which is a common cause of layout shifts. Current data indicates that this opportunity is frequently missed.

{{ figure_markup(

>   image="font-resource-hint-usage.png",

Reviewer: Small typo: looks like we either need to update this reference or change the filename.

```suggestion
  image="fonts-resource-hint-usage.png",
```

  )
}}

This is likely related to the complexities of setting up and configuring Early Hints: the assets for any given page must be related to the server before the page is complete and ready for sending; for most CMSs this would be a challenge.

The mobile/desktop parity is also quite noticeable; never more than a 1% difference, and typically closer to 0.5%. Meaning, where Early Hints are implemented, they are likely done so similarly for all device types.

While usage remains low in 2025, there has been a noticeable increase over the past three years.

{{ figure_markup(
  image="early-hints-usage-by-year.png",
  caption="Early Hints usage by year (2023, 2024, 2025) and device (mobile, desktop)",
  description="The chart shows the percentage of pages using Early Hints by year on desktop and mobile in 2023, 2024 and 2025. Usage is quite low in all groups for all years, but there is a consistent increase across the years, from just over 1% to roughly 4%.",
chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSdGtVc2AYakM2cNaGLtpVgQwXfG7jOrGQymbbJo20qaMXn1Pd1cyV_tU9PROEuwFbhFBeI3GHCNhvN/pubchart?oid=888096185&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1512001974",

>   sql_file="TODO"

Reviewer: 💡 Looks like this `sql_file` should be `early_hints_usage_trends.sql`.

```suggestion
  sql_file="early_hints_usage_trends.sql"
```

The **Web Almanac performance** chapter examines these signals at scale across devices and network conditions to provide a data-driven view of the state of web performance. By analyzing real-world data, it highlights where the web is improving, where challenges remain, and which patterns are associated with better user experiences.

What's new this year?
- Expanded coverage of emerging browser features, including new sections on Speculation Rules and Early Hints and their impact on perceived performance and navigation.
- TODO: add more

### Data Sources and Methodology

> This chapter draws on data from the [HTTP Archive](https://httparchive.org/faq) and the [Chrome UX Report (CrUX)](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/crux), combining lab-based measurements with real-user performance data. The HTTP Archive collects Chrome-based page load data via WebPageTest, providing detailed insight into how pages behave under controlled conditions, while CrUX reflects real-world user experiences collected from Chrome users. The primary analysis is based on measurements from July 2025 and spans millions of websites and a very large volume of page loads across the web. Additional details on data collection and methodology are available in the [Web Almanac methodology documentation](../2025/methodology).

Author: leaving this open for someone to help confirm but I believe this is how we link across chapters?

## Core Web Vitals Summary

> Core Web Vitals are Google's key performance metrics that measure how fast, responsive, and visually stable a webpage feels to real users. These include Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which indicates when a page's main content becomes visible and the page first feels useful; Interaction to Next Paint (INP), which reflects how responsive the page is to user input; and Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures how often unexpected layout changes occur during a page's lifetime. The following sections examine how Core Web Vitals have evolved over time across mobile and desktop.

Reviewer 2: a list is easier on the eyes

```suggestion
Core Web Vitals are Google's key performance metrics that measure how fast, responsive, and visually stable a webpage feels to real users. These include:

* Largest Contentful Paint (LCP), which indicates when a page's main content becomes visible and the page first feels useful.
* Interaction to Next Paint (INP), which reflects how responsive the page is to user input. 
* Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), which measures how often unexpected layout changes occur during a page's lifetime. 

The following sections examine how Core Web Vitals have evolved over time across mobile and desktop.
```

  description="The chart shows the percentage of websites achieving good Core Web Vitals (CWV) scores by site rank, comparing desktop and mobile performance. Among the top 1,000 websites, 59% of desktop sites have good CWV, compared to 51% on mobile, with mobile performance declining further for the next tiers to 42% for the top 10,000 and 37% for the top 100,000 sites. Desktop performance remains relatively stable across ranks, staying between 55% and 57%, while mobile performance improves again for lower-ranked sites, reaching 49% for the top 10 million and 48% overall.",
chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSdGtVc2AYakM2cNaGLtpVgQwXfG7jOrGQymbbJo20qaMXn1Pd1cyV_tU9PROEuwFbhFBeI3GHCNhvN/pubchart?oid=293787205&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1721986308",
  sql_file="web_vitals_by_rank_and_device.sql"
  )
}}

Performance metrics for top mobile websites show a clear distinction:
- 51% of the 1,000 most popular mobile websites have good Core Web Vitals (CWV), surpassing the overall mobile CWV of 48%.

However, CWV scores drop significantly for less popular sites:
- The next 10,000 websites score 42%.

> - The subsequent 1 million websites score 37%.

Reviewer 2: A list with a single item looks awkward

```suggestion
Performance metrics for top mobile websites show a clear distinction, however, CWV scores drop significantly for less popular sites:
- 51% of the 1,000 most popular mobile websites have good Core Web Vitals (CWV), surpassing the overall mobile CWV of 48%.
- The next 10,000 websites score 42%.
- The subsequent 1 million websites score 37%.
```

  caption="The percent of websites having good CWV, segmented by page type.",
  description="The chart shows the percentage of pages with good Core Web Vitals (CWV) scores for home pages and secondary pages on desktop and mobile. On home pages, 47% of desktop pages and 45% of mobile pages achieve good CWV. On secondary pages, the share increases to 61% on desktop and 56% on mobile.",
chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSdGtVc2AYakM2cNaGLtpVgQwXfG7jOrGQymbbJo20qaMXn1Pd1cyV_tU9PROEuwFbhFBeI3GHCNhvN/pubchart?oid=604736426&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1721986308",
  sql_file="web_vitals_by_device_secondary_pages.sql"
  )
}}

Secondary pages show a significant advantage over home pages in achieving good CWV results, with a 14% lead on Desktop and an 11% lead on Mobile.This performance gap suggests that secondary pages often benefit from having partially cached information, which contributes to faster page loads.

<a hreflang="en" href="https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-soft-navigations-origin-trial">Soft navigation</a> support is expected to aid in a more comprehensive collection of Web Vitals data for within the page navigation.

> While the current CWV data indicates better overall performance for secondary pages, a deeper dive into specific aspects of loading performance, interactivity and visual stability is necessary to fully understand the user experience, which is what we will cover in the following sections.

Reviewer 2: it's a little meandering, tighten up a bit
```suggestion
While CWV data indicates better overall performance for secondary pages, let's dive deeper into the specific aspects of:
- loading performance
- interactivity and 
- visual stability
```

The mobile/desktop parity is also quite noticeable; never more than a 1% difference, and typically closer to 0.5%. Meaning, where Early Hints are implemented, they are likely done so similarly for all device types.

Though as low as the usage for 2025 is, it is also noticeable that there has been an increase in usage over the past three years.

{{ figure_markup(
  image="early-hints-usage-by-year.png",
  caption="Early Hints usage by year (2023, 2024, 2025) and device (mobile, desktop)",
  description="The chart shows the percentage of pages using Early Hints by year on desktop and mobile in 2023, 2024 and 2025. Usage is quite low in all groups for all years, but there is a consistent increase across the years, from just over 1% to roughly 4%.",
chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSdGtVc2AYakM2cNaGLtpVgQwXfG7jOrGQymbbJo20qaMXn1Pd1cyV_tU9PROEuwFbhFBeI3GHCNhvN/pubchart?oid=888096185&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1512001974",
  sql_file="TODO"
  )
}}

### Support

> Unlike most web performance features, Early Hints relies not only on browsers, but also on servers for support. As of this publication, “Preconnect" was supported in all browsers, and “Preload" in all except Safari.

Reviewer 3: - quotes need to be corrected (for both Preconnect and Preload)
 
- replace: preconnect "was" to preconnect "is"

The Web Almanac performance chapter examines these signals at scale across devices and network conditions to provide a data-driven view of the state of web performance. By analyzing real-world data, it highlights where the web is improving, where challenges remain, and which patterns are associated with better user experiences.

The **Web Almanac performance** chapter examines these signals at scale across devices and network conditions to provide a data-driven view of the state of web performance. By analyzing real-world data, it highlights where the web is improving, where challenges remain, and which patterns are associated with better user experiences.

What's new this year?
- Expanded coverage of emerging browser features, including new sections on Speculation Rules and Early Hints and their impact on perceived performance and navigation.

> - TODO: add more

Author: as discussed, added Early Hints and Speculation Rules in a sentence as a note in Intro. Also, I already called out Firefox and Safari support in Intro, skipping it considering the data is Chrome heavy, and these metrics came later in year, so doubt if meaningfully impacts the results.
